In the next two questions you will see how MySQL handles concurrency. As default
MySQL commits every single query as a transaction meaning that as soon as a query
is executed it is also committed to the database. However, MySQL also supports
multiple queries to be bundled up in a single transaction as described during the
lecture.
To test this, open two terminals in the same computer, both connecting to the same
database, then use the query START TRANSACTION to start a transaction that is
finished by either COMMIT or ROLLBACK. Note that once the transaction is
finished the database goes back to the default setting of committing every query
unless a new transaction is started. The main queries to handle transactions are START
TRANSACTION, COMMIT, ROLLBACK, LOCK TABLES, UNLOCK TABLES,
SAVEPOINT and SELECT…FOR UPDATE. Please check the MySQL manual for
further description and examples of the queries.
Play around with the transaction queries above in the two terminals and try to
anticipate what will happen. One important difference between MySQL and what is
described during the lecture is that MySQL has the transaction isolation level
Repeatable-Read as default to maintain consistency of the database for the
transactions. This means that MySQL implicitly adds a write lock on each tuple that is
inserted, or updated, in any table. It also adds read locks on the tuples when they are
used in for example IF-statements. For further motivation of this, how it works, and
how it can be changed, check the MySQL manual regarding transaction isolation
level.

9. Open two MySQL sessions. We call one of them A and the other one B. Write
START TRANSACTION; in both terminals.

a) In session A, add a new reservation.

    Ok.

b) Is this reservation visible in session B? Why? Why not?

    No, because changes inside a transaction is only commited if "COMMIT" is used.

c) What happens if you try to modify the reservation from A in B? Explain what
happens and why this happens and how this relates to the concept of isolation
of transactions.

    The session B starts waiting for the uncommited changes session A has done in its transaction.

    This creates a type of isolation which makes sure that even if A and B is running 
    concurrently, you make sure possible changes to the tables are updated before 
    B touches the tables. This make it seem like each session is running in isolation
    to each other, without interfering, which makes transactions safe even when running concurrently.