10. Is your BryanAir implementation safe when handling multiple concurrent
transactions? Let two customers try to simultaneously book more seats than what are
available on a flight and see what happens. This is tested by executing the testscripts
available on the course-page using two different MySQL sessions. Note that you
should not use explicit transaction control unless this is your solution on 10c.

a) Did overbooking occur when the scripts were executed? If so, why? If not,
why not?

    The critical section is after calculating amount of free seats for the booking and before converting to a booking. 
    If multiple sessions enters this critical section they can all "verify" that
    enough free seats are available, without consideration of another session completing its booking before itself.

    No, an overbooking did not occur since the probability of the two sessions going into the critical section 
    is relativley low as it is the critical section spans a few lines of codes which are quickly executed.

b) Can an overbooking theoretically occur? If an overbooking is possible, in what
order must the lines of code in your procedures/functions be executed.

    Yes it can as explained in question 10a if the two sessions enters the critical section concurrently
    Lines of code
    1. SET freeseats:=calculateFreeSeats(flightnumber);
    2. INSERT INTO Booking ...

    Order of execution to allow overbooking:

        Session A | Session B
        1           
                    1
        2           
                    2

    Note that the only requirement of order is that both sessions executes 1 before starting with 2.

c) Try to make the theoretical case occur in reality by simulating that multiple
sessions call the procedure at the same time. To specify the order in which the
lines of code are executed use the MySQL query SELECT sleep(5); which
makes the session sleep for 5 seconds. Note that it is not always possible to
make the theoretical case occur, if not, motivate why.

    Code:

        SET freeseats:=calculateFreeSeats(flightnumber);
        
        ...
        
        SELECT "SLEEPING FOR 5 SECONDS..."; -- new code
        SELECT SLEEP(1); -- new code

        INSERT INTO Booking ...

    Added a sleep inside the critical section described above.
    This will make the overbooking to occur as long as Session B enters the mentioned 
    critical area before Session A is out of its sleep.

d) Modify the testscripts so that overbookings are no longer possible using
(some of) the commands START TRANSACTION, COMMIT, LOCK TABLES, UNLOCK
TABLES, ROLLBACK, SAVEPOINT, and SELECT…FOR UPDATE. Motivate why your
solution solves the issue, and test that this also is the case using the sleep
implemented in 10c. Note that it is not ok that one of the sessions ends up in a
deadlock scenario. Also, try to hold locks on the common resources for as
short time as possible to allow multiple sessions to be active at the same time.
Note that depending on how you have implemented the project it might be very
hard to block the overbooking due to how transactions and locks are
implemented in MySQL. If you have a good idea of how it should be solved but
are stuck on getting the queries right, talk to your lab-assistant and he or she
might help you get it right or allow you to hand in the exercise with
pseudocode and a theoretical explanation.

    Solution:

        LOCK TABLES
            Booking WRITE,
            Reservation WRITE,
            PassengerReservation WRITE,
            CreditCard WRITE,
            Ticket WRITE,
            allFlights READ;
        CALL addPayment (@a, "Sauron",7878787878); -- old line, all other are our code
        UNLOCK TABLES;

    Our solution solves the issue since it locks down all tables which are used in the addPayment-procedure.
    When the tables are locked with READ/WRITE, no other session can READ/WRITE to those tables (and will instead
    wait until they are unlocked). This way, no more than one process can be within the critical zone described above.